Pot/Potluck Report (#273)
freebsd/freebsd-doc: website/content/en/status/report-2023-07-2023-09/pot.adoc

=== Containers and FreeBSD: Pot, Potluck and Potman

Links: +
link:https://github.com/bsdpot[Pot organization on GitHub] URL: link:https://github.com/bsdpot[]

Contact: Luca Pizzamiglio (Pot) <pizzamig@FreeBSD.org> +
Contact: Bretton Vine (Potluck) <bv@honeyguide.eu> +
Contact: Michael Gmelin (Potman) <grembo@FreeBSD.org>

Pot is a jail management tool that link:https://www.freebsd.org/news/status/report-2020-01-2020-03/#pot-and-the-nomad-pot-driver[also supports orchestration through Nomad].

> During this quarter, link:https://github.com/bsdpot/pot/pull/274[Pot 0.15.6] was finished, adding custom pf rule configuration hooks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During this quarter, link:https://github.com/bsdpot/pot/pull/274[Pot 0.15.6] was finished, adding custom man:pf[4] rule configuration hooks.
```

> Additionally, a new release for the link:https://github.com/bsdpot/nomad-pot-driver[Nomad Pot Driver] that allows setting Pot attributes in Nomad job descriptions will very likely be available by the time you are reading this report.

Reviewer 2: @hny-gd v0.9.1 was released today, portstree update will happen tomorrow latest.

Potluck aims to be to FreeBSD and Pot what Dockerhub is to Linux and Docker: a repository of Pot flavours and complete container images for usage with Pot and in many cases Nomad.

Quite a few new container images were made available, e.g. link:https://github.com/bsdpot/potluck/tree/master/caddy-s3-nomad[a Caddy S3 proxy], link:https://github.com/bsdpot/potluck/tree/master/mastodon-s3[a Mastodon instance] or a link:https://github.com/bsdpot/potluck/tree/master/redis-single[Redis container]. In total there are now 50 containers available that can either be downloaded as ready-made images at link:https://potluck.honeyguide.net/[the Potluck image registry] if you trust our build process or that you can rebuild yourself from the Pot flavour files stored in the link:https://github.com/bsdpot/potluck[Potluck Github repository].  

The July/August 2023 edition of the FreeBSD Journal contains Luca's link:https://freebsdfoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Pizzamiglio.pdf[Jail Orchestration with pot and nomad] article, explaining how to use Pot and Potluck together with Nomad to orchestrate containers on multiple hosts.

> Last not least, link:https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=273583[a patch] adding build cluster support to the link:https://www.freshports.org/devel/sccache/[sccache port] was committed.

Reviewer: I think the commit is in `ports` not in `src`, hence
```suggestion
Last but not least, a patch (gitref:90b1184d93c8[repository=ports]) added build cluster support to the package:devel/sccache[] port.
```

> Last not least, link:https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=273583[a patch] adding build cluster support to the link:https://www.freshports.org/devel/sccache/[sccache port] was committed.

Reviewer 3: @lsalvadore thanks, sorry for my error (copy-and-paste from Bugzilla, an oversight with edition).

> Last not least, link:https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=273583[a patch] for the link:https://www.freshports.org/devel/sccache/[sccache port] was submitted to include sccache-dist and is about to be released at the time of this writing.

Reviewer 2: @hny-gd This also landed today.
